README.md, before:

# PopCondIntolTest
## Ancestry adjustment improves genome-wide estimates of regional intolerance

Genomic regions subject to purifying selection are more likely to be of functional importance to the health and survival of an organism. Methods for identifying such regions can roughly be divided into those using cross species conservation and those using variational intolerance within a species.  Cross species conservation relies on identifying regions with fewer differences than expected given divergence times between species. This makes regions that are of functional consequence in only one species difficult to detect. In contrast, intolerance looks for depletion of variation relative to expectation within a given species, allowing species specific features to be identified. However, as the expected distribution of variation can be distorted by demography, if not properly controlled for, ancestral population source may obfuscate signals of selection. We demonstrate that properly incorporating demography in intolerance estimation results in greatly improved variant classification (14% increase in AUC relative to CDTS and 7% relative to conservation). We provide a genome-wide map of a signature of purifying selecition that is likely to be useful for identifying regions of functional importance in the human population and prioritizing variation for pathogenicity in individual genomes.

Further information to come.

Commit message:

Adding in links for download and link to BioRxiv paper and brief text updates

README.md, after:

# Population Conditional Intolerance Test (PCIT)
## [Ancestry adjustment improves genome-wide estimates of regional intolerance](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.05.979203v1)

Genomic regions subject to purifying selection are more likely to carry disease causing mutations. Cross species conservation is often used to identify such regions but has limited resolution to detect selection on short evolutionary timescales such as that occurring in only one species. In contrast, intolerance looks for depletion of variation relative to expectation within a species, allowing species specific features to be identified. When estimating the intolerance of noncoding sequence methods strongly leverage variant frequency distributions. As the expected distributions depend on demography, if not properly controlled for, ancestral population source may obfuscate signals of selection. We demonstrate that properly incorporating demography in intolerance estimation greatly improved variant classification (13% increase in AUC relative to comparison constraint test, CDTS; and 9% relative to conservation). We provide a genome-wide intolerance map that is conditional on demographic history that is likely to be particularly valuable for variant prioritization.


Further information to come.

-----------------------------------------------------
### Download PCIT files for test fit on gnomAD v2.1.

[Chrom 1 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr1Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr1Tabix)
[Chrom 2 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr2Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr2Tabix)
[Chrom 3 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr3Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr3Tabix)
[Chrom 4 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr4Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr4Tabix)
[Chrom 5 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr5Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr5Tabix)
[Chrom 6 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr6Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr6Tabix)
[Chrom 7 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr7Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr7Tabix)
[Chrom 8 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr8Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr8Tabix)
[Chrom 9 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr9Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr9Tabix)
[Chrom 10 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr10Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr10Tabix)
[Chrom 11 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr11Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr11Tabix)
[Chrom 12 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr12Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr12Tabix)
[Chrom 13 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr13Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr13Tabix)
[Chrom 14 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr14Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr14Tabix)
[Chrom 15 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr15Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr15Tabix)
[Chrom 16 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr16Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr16Tabix)
[Chrom 17 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr17Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr17Tabix)
[Chrom 18 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr18Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr18Tabix)
[Chrom 19 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr19Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr19Tabix)
[Chrom 20 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr20Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr20Tabix)
[Chrom 21 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr21Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr21Tabix)
[Chrom 22 PCIT](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr22Tests) [tbi](https://upenn.box.com/v/pcitChr22Tabix)
